---
layout: cebs
title: "Chemical Effects in Biological System"
date: 2017-10-22
img: "cebs.png"
---
## How to use
1.  Show chemical info - mouse point to the trend.
2.  Open the individual chemical page - mouse click on the trend.

## Summary
Data source: National Toxicology Program [LINK](https://tools.niehs.nih.gov/cebs3/ui/)

This chart is a combination of all chemical tests of the dataset. There are eight types of bio results including ALBUMIN (ALB), ALKALINE PHOSPHATASE (ALP), ALANINE AMINOTRANSFERASE (ALT), UREA NITROGEN (BUN), CREATINE KINASE (CK), CREATININE (CREAT), PROTEIN TOTAL (PROTEIN), and SORBITOL DEHYDROGENASE (SDH).

## The issue of data quality
The dataset is a combination of multiple files from the data source - National Toxicology Program. The major issue of this dataset is missing data. Most of the records are incomplete. For example, one record has ALP, BUN, and SDH data, but the rest results are empty. To settle this problem, I create a four levels data quality filters switch. “More than 200” means the trends with the color are generated by more than 200 not null records; it is the most reliable level. “Less than 50” means the trends with the color are generated by less than 50 not null records; these trends don’t have enough the amount of data to prove true.

## Conclusion
Many trends remain constant; I believe that means the test object has no effect or barely effect in the tested biological system. From the chart, we also can see some serious fluctuation; I think that means the test object effect in the tested biological system significantly.
